[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
What if everything
you thought you
knew about health
was absolutely backwards?
And what if I were to tell
you that our burgeoning
rates of obesity, diabetes,
cancer, and infertility
were more about light than food?
Dr. Jack Kruse, a
neurosurgeon by trade,
has scaled these issues
down to the quantum
level of how light and frequency
behave in the human body.
And this isn't your
ordinary story.
I'm going to warn you
right now, everybody.
Get a pen, get some paper,
hit the pause button now.
So you have that, because this
is very information saturated.
And you're not going to
want to miss any of this.
This is life
changing information.
So with that, OK,
hopefully, you've
hit the Play button
again and here we are.
Welcome.
You know, you are the most
colorfully dressed guest
I think I've ever
had on this show.
>>JACK KRUSE: Oh, you've
got to go with what you are.
>>REGINA: Purple, why purple?
>>KRUSE: Well, purple happens
to be the solar spectrum
of hydrogen. And one of
the things that I found
10 years ago that was important
in reversing my problem
was I had to biohack the
periodic table of elements.
The first periodic
element is hydrogen.
Hydrogen is known
as the chameleon.
It is able to change any
atom on the periodic table
to allow it to do things
that it needs to do.
And if you understand
fundamentally what life is
and what evolution
is, it's about change,
it's about adaptation,
it's about transformation.
So once you understand
how life uses it,
it becomes extremely important
and coherent to the message
that I'm giving people
because that's who I am now.
>>REGINA: So purple
is representative
of transformation.
And even if you go
into ancient texts,
and you go through the
chakra system, of course,
once you get to
purple violet, you're
into the areas of
transformation.
>>KRUSE: True, but it also
scales all the way down
to the quantum level.
Because purples,
blues, and violets
have a very special
physical meaning.
It actually is able to make
light bend much more frequently
under the force of
gravity and turns out
that life uses that
in extreme detail
to set the atomic
clock in your head.
>>REGINA: Now we're
already like five levels
down the rabbit hole.
Let's start with
letting people know
a little bit about who you are.
Because, at one point,
you weren't so svelte
and you had some
health problems.
>>KRUSE: Yeah, I
mean, 10 years ago, I
was giving a spine talk
in Birmingham, Alabama,
on minimally invasive
spine surgery
to a bunch of my colleagues.
And I stood up at a
podium to give the speech
and I got a horrible
pain in my right leg.
And I didn't know
what the problem was.
Turns out I had torn my knee
meniscus just by standing up.
And as a physician,
by trade, I was
like how could this
possibly happen
with me not being on the
ski slopes or this and that.
>>REGINA: But you
were overweight.
>>KRUSE: Oh, yeah, I was
357 pounds at the time,
but, back then,
in that reality, I
didn't believe that that was a
major issue because I was still
pretty young.
And one of the
orthopedic surgeons
who was in the
audience had a wife
who worked for Amgen.
And she said to me, look,
my husband says you're
a pretty smart guy.
She goes I'd like to send
you a book and six papers.
And I want you to specifically
read them in this order
and I think I can
help you understand
why this happened to you.
So, of course, I
thought it was woo-woo.
And--
>>REGINA: You're not prone
toward woo, as you call it.
>>KRUSE: Well, let's
put it this way.
10 years ago, I was
a big time skeptic
of pretty much everything.
You know, I was
trained conventionally.
>>REGINA: Medical model, yeah.
>>KRUSE: Exactly, that's
where I came from.
So, to my shock,
about a week later,
I get a book in the mail called
"The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari"
by Robin Sharma.
And it's a fable.
It's not a true story.
And she was adamant about
reading the book first,
so I did.
Then she gave me the
six papers and told me
you need to read these
in specific order.
So, for those of you who
don't know about the book,
it's a very interesting
book about a lawyer named
Julian Battle who's probably
the most famous attorney in New
York City at the time.
He has a heart attack
in the middle of a trial
and realizes that
he almost died.
He had to change his life.
So he basically sold
everything, went up
to the top of the
Himalayan mountains,
and came back 25
years younger, totally
changed his outlook on life.
And as I read this whole
book, I kept going through it.
And I said, OK, this
is a great story.
You know, it was a nice
book, a short read.
Then I read the first paper.
I read the second paper.
And it dawned on me
after the second paper,
I said, wait a minute, is
it possible that what's
in this fable is actually true.
Could we actually do this?
So then I read the third
paper, the fourth paper,
the fifth paper.
And all of a sudden, all
of these rabbit holes
started to open up to me.
And that's when I learned
about a hormone called leptin.
And it turns out
that this lady had
been a biotechnologist that
worked on synthetic leptin
trials.
And for those people
who don't know,
leptin is the master
hormone of the body
that's secreted by fat cells.
And it's in a part of your
brain called the hypothalamus.
Leptin basically works
on circadian biology.
That's a term that's tied to
light and dark cycles, night
and day.
As I went further and further
down this rabbit hole,
I started to realize that all
the things that I had been
taught in medical school,
and what I had told patients,
that you need to exercise more
and eat less in order to be fit
turned out that it was
completely backwards.
>>REGINA: Now,
let's get to-- let's
get to the kinky little
place in this story that
has to do with the David
statue in Florence.
>>KRUSE: After I had gone
through the rabbit hole of all
the papers, I spent
about 18 months
in the Vanderbilt
medical school library
reading on all
these rabbit holes
and seeing all these
different ties.
And when I grew up in
New York City as a kid,
I spent a lot of time in the
Museum of Natural History.
So I always had a lot
of scientific facts.
I happened to be on a family
vacation with my family
and I told my wife that one of
the things on my bucket list
that I had to see was
Michelangelo's David
for specific reasons.
But when I was in the museum,
the interesting thing happened.
Everybody was standing in
front of David looking at him,
and I was standing behind
him looking at his behind,
and it happened
by happen chance.
I looked up at him and
I said how can that
be perfection 500 years ago.
And I'm looking at my fat ass--
>>REGINA: Looking at your butt.
>>KRUSE: You know--
>>REGINA: That's true.
I mean, that is one of the most
gloriously inspiring sights
in the world, David's rear end.
That was my favorite
view of the statue, too.
>>KRUSE: But it wasn't mine.
What happened to me
was a spark of insight.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KRUSE: I happened to look
up, and above David's head,
there's a ledge.
And on that ledge was a bird.
And when I saw the bird and I
saw David, I said, you know,
what's the difference
between perfection and me.
And it dawned on me.
The environment
that he lived in was
completely different than
the one that I lived in.
Then I thought about
it further and I
said there's a bird up there.
What do a bird and
man have in common?
They have huge
mitochondrial density.
Why?
Bird needs to fly
long distances when
it's disconnected from earth.
Why does man have it?
Because its brain
allows it to disconnect
from the natural
cycles on earth.
One of those natural
key things, I
call them the
three legged stool,
what's the three legged stool?
Light, water, and magnetism.
And how did I pick up on that?
Those six papers led me
down those rabbit holes.
All that time that I had
spent in the Vanderbilt
medical school library
brought me down there.
Every single point
that I went down
brought me back to one
of those three schools.
And then the interesting
thing happened.
I started to realize that
NASA, any place it looked
for life in the cosmos, always
used the same three principles.
When I started to
realize this, then it
opened up some other channels.
I started to look far outside
the boundaries of science
that I was classically
trained in.
I started to teach
myself cosmology.
I started to look at geology.
I started to look at
quantized ecosystems.
But the key ones
was quantum physics,
because what did I realize?
The key thing that
happened to me in Florence
was I realized this was a
story about mitochondria.
And what do birds and
men have in common?
We have huge
mitochondrial density.
Here was the interesting
part of the story.
If you know anything
about mitochondria,
they're the power
plant of the cell.
What's the input?
Electrons.
What's the output
from cytochromes?
Protons.
See, most people believe in
my profession that being well
is about food.
But, see, what
people don't realize
is that all foods get
broken down to what?
Electrons.
And, see, to understand the
input of mitochondria you
have to understand electrons.
I did not understand
a lot about electrons.
On the back of every
electron is a photon,
which is a light beam.
And I knew even less about that.
That's when I'd realized
I had to go and learn
a lot more about
quantum physics.
So that's what I did.
And the more I
learned, the more I
realized that we truly
are beings of light.
We are not what we think we are.
There's been tons of
research done on this topic.
The problem is it's not
tied to Western science.
The reason why those things were
disconnected were world wars.
Most of this research
was done in Russia.
I actually had to go
back and translate papers
from Russian into English
in order to understand it.
You don't have to
do that these days
because now there's books
written about all those papers.
I did the same
thing when it came--
>>REGINA: So they understood
these principles long before--
>>KRUSE: 1923.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>KRUSE: That was a gentleman
named Alexander Gurwitsch.
In 1923, the seminal
research that
showed that all life emits
extreme low frequency UV light.
And that's the
signal, what he called
mutagenic radiations, that's the
signal to tell cells to divide.
And the interesting thing
that he found, and this
is very interesting, when he put
a piece of glass between-- he
used two onions.
He cut the bottom
off of one onion
to stimulate cell
division in the other one.
When he put a piece of glass
between them, it didn't work.
When he put a piece of
quartz, like this right
here, between them, it worked.
Why is that?
Because UVB light
is blocked by glass,
it's not blocked by quartz.
And that told me,
right there, when
I read that, that this
was a quantized process.
In other words, anything
dealing with light and electrons
is not biologic.
It's quantum mechanics,
quantum physics.
And I knew that I didn't
know enough about that.
So what did I do?
I jumped down that rabbit hole.
And, literally,
in medical school,
in residency, in training, I had
absolutely no training outside
of basic physics.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>KRUSE: So after putting
myself through all this,
I began to realize on the
flight home from Michelangelo
that I had a new perspective.
So, literally, from
Charles de Gaulle Airport
to Chicago, which is
where the flight was,
I took every Delta napkin
and started writing down
this quilt document.
And I put 30 different levies.
And you know, me,
from New Orleans,
we call levees something
that protects the city.
So I came up with the idea to
protect our cells in our body.
And I started to order them.
And you can go on my
blog now and find,
it's called the quilt document.
I wrote this in 14 hours
on a plane going home.
>>REGINA: On napkins.
>>KRUSE: On napkins.
I still actually have
the napkins at home.
And when I got home, I
actually wrote it down.
And my wife, to this day,
still remembers the trip
because she's like
you were in a zone.
It was clear that something
was going through your head.
But I had-- I didn't tell
anybody about what I was doing.
And I came up with
this document.
Then I started to go home and
put different prescriptions
together.
I started to realize
that I could fix myself
if I use circadian biology
to alter my environment.
I realized that there was
another answer out there.
And after going through
all this process, what
did I come up with?
I found that I could eat more
and exercise less, do exactly
opposite what I was
taught in medical school.
And my hypothesis,
or what I like
to call as my biohack
or my n equals one
was to put this to the test.
Because, like any
good scientist,
you can come up
with a good idea,
but if you don't have any
experience or experiments
to back it up, a
theory's just a dream.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>KRUSE: And that's all it is.
So I went home, and
I did just that.
I came up with something
called the Leptin
Prescription and the Cold
Thermogenesis Protocol.
Leptin Prescription basically
is a synonym for light.
What is Cold Thermogenesis
a synonym for?
Cold, or magnetism.
Those were the two keys.
So I went back home, and, in
three months, I lost 77 pounds.
>>REGINA: Whoa.
>>KRUSE: And in 11
months, I lost 133 pounds.
And my wife would come in and
watch me shrink every day.
Now, there was times, especially
when I was in surgery,
because when I'm in surgery,
I'm around really bad
light, like you and
I are right now.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: We're sitting
in the middle of--
>>REGINA: Unhealthy,
unnatural light.
Yeah.
>>KRUSE: And those things
really put me at risk
during my day job.
So I realize those days, I had
to mitigate my risks higher.
So I packed myself in ice.
And that's an
extreme, but realizing
that my environment
that I placed myself
in as a neurosurgeon in the
operating room is also extreme.
>>REGINA: So before we move
on deeper into that subject,
and to the case of a woman that
we talked about off camera,
which sounds just amazing, very
similar to the story you're
talking about with you.
What exactly-- people,
by this time, are saying,
OK, I have my pencil out.
What did he do to
make that happen?
So just give us a sketch,
without going even
into the science at this
point, of what it required
you to do to get back
into the circadian rhythm
and do things correctly by
what you had just studied
at the library and so forth.
>>KRUSE: Well, you--
>>REGINA: What had you learned?
>>KRUSE: It's actually
pretty simple.
I came up with a prescription
called my Leptin Prescription.
You can find it on my blog.
Six steps, but here's
the gist of it.
Soon as you wake up
early in the morning,
you need to go outside and
let the sun hit your retina.
You can't have
glasses on, you can't
have a window in front of you.
And you have to eat a very
large protein breakfast
within 30 minutes of rising.
And that's key.
>>REGINA: So the connection
between taking the sun directly
into your eye, meaning it
should be early in the morning,
or you have to look through
your eyelashes at the sun?
>>KRUSE: Well, if-- it depends--
>>REGINA: Or just
for a second or two?
>>KRUSE: It depends on
your local environment.
If you're a shift worker,
you've got a problem.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK, so let's just
say we're not shift workers.
We're getting up, we
can look in the sun
for however many seconds
before it burns our retina.
>>KRUSE: Well, you
don't need to do it.
Early in the morning,
you're not going
have a problem with that because
the sun's angle of inclination
is weak.
You're looking just to set
the atomic clock in your head
at that time.
Because you have to reset it.
Then eating protein actually
resets the atomic clocks
in your gut.
And what you're trying
to do is you're trying
to get them yoked together.
In other words, this one
has to meet this one.
And you consistently do that.
And what you find over four
to six weeks, what's the key?
Anybody that's been
overweight knows
that they tend to
have hunger, they
tend to crave carbohydrates,
and things like that.
Within six weeks, that goes
away when you use this process.
>>REGINA: So let's-- we're going
to break it down a little bit.
When you say eat
protein in the morning,
we're going to talk about
fish in a little while, but--
>>KRUSE: Well, you
don't have to use fish.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
So I was going to
say, what can you
have besides oysters
for breakfast here?
Just any good solid--
>>KRUSE: Eggs.
>>REGINA: Protein like eggs.
>>KRUSE: Well, you
can use eggs, bacon.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KRUSE: You know, sausage.
>>REGINA: Kind of classic paleo.
>>KRUSE: Well, I think people
would call it paleo Atkins,
I don't call it that because,
really, truly, what you're
trying to do is you're
using protein as a tool.
And that protein
is trying to give
a message to your microbiome.
>>REGINA: Now I have
another question.
We'll have some
people watching this
who are vegans or
vegetarians, but more vegans,
let's say, where
they don't eat eggs.
>>KRUSE: Yeah.
They got a big problem.
And this goes to the point
that I made to you earlier,
that I can lead you to the water
but I can't make you drink.
See, here's the beautiful thing
about evolution and science.
It's OK to have a
belief about something,
but if it's not
accurate, then you're
not going to have
the outcome you want.
Vegans can do this,
because I've got
several vegans in my community.
>>REGINA: What do they
use for their proteins?
>>KRUSE: They're
using whey protein.
>>REGINA: And so that'll help.
>>KRUSE: And a lot
of them are what
I would call not
hardcore vegans,
so that they'll use
eggs to their advantage.
But it can be done,
but here's the problem.
The rate of assimilation,
the rate of change is slower.
And it also-- usually people who
are vegan, who are vegetarians,
have lower redox potentials.
What does that mean in English?
It means that the battery
that drives our biochemistry
is lower.
So just like a car, if
a car has a bad battery,
the key may start the car,
but the horn and the lights
may not work.
The peripheral systems are off.
>>REGINA: I know, I mean I was
a vegetarian for almost 20 years
for philosophical purposes,
and my horns and lights
weren't working at all.
And I felt like I was
on my way out actually.
I could tell my systems
were shutting down.
And then, one day, a little
meditation and vision, and it
showed me a medium rare steak
and a glass of red wine,
and I cried, but I ate it.
And I started actually
getting better immediately.
>>KRUSE: Well, this is
the counterintuitive part.
People, especially
humans, we are
the one animal on
this planet that
can create our own reality.
We don't realize that we're
creatures to our beliefs.
And my job as a physician
is not to tell you
how to live your life.
My job is to tell
you what I found.
And through this whole
evolutionary biology story,
it brought me back to
the smallest level.
I'm going to give you
a very quick story
about how important
this is to me
from a neurosurgery perspective.
Probably the most
famous neurosurgeon
in the 20th century was a
guy named Gazi Yasargil.
What did he do that made
him so incredibly powerful?
He brought the
operating microscope
into the operating field.
That allowed us to
see smaller scale,
so that we could do better jobs
with AVMs, aneurysms, and brain
tumors.
What am I doing?
Exactly the same.
I'm taking you from biochemical
levels down to quantum levels,
to electrons and protons.
I'm going to tell
you fundamentally
that the electrons that are in a
vegan diet or a vegetarian diet
are radically different than
the ones in a DHA seafood based
diet, then I'm going to explain
to you why it's different.
Then you're faced with
the beautiful opportunity
that quantum physics gives
you is changing your reality.
How do you change your
reality as a human?
You change your mind.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So now let's get back to
these few points with you,
and then we'll go to the woman
named Kate Towers who you've
worked with and her family.
So we're talking about-- you
look into the sun for however
many seconds you comfortably
can do that to reset this--
>>KRUSE: It doesn't
take that much.
You can do for 30 seconds.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And then you have,
within 30 minutes--
>>KRUSE: A large-- we
call it the big ass
breakfast on the site.
>>REGINA: Protein breakfast.
Then what happens after that?
>>KRUSE: Well, those
are the key things.
There's other things
that go with it,
but those are the two big keys.
What you want to do is do
that for four to six weeks.
Once the key signal is--
sweating tends to change,
but the big one is
cravings go away.
And see when obese people
see cravings go away,
they're kind of shocked.
Most people who are
listening to this
will not believe that
happens, but it does.
>>REGINA: Right, because they've
been a slave to the cravings.
>>KRUSE: Correct.
And the thing is they don't
realize that light drives
things.
And to get into the details a
little bit more, why does light
do that?
Light controls another
atom in us called nitrogen.
And this process in us
is called ubiquitination.
Light and nitrogen
control carbon flows.
So what did I just say there?
Sleight of hand.
Light and nitrogen
together control food.
See, we have the
fundamental belief
that food is the primary
driver of both epigenetics,
meaning our environment.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: We have
that in medicine,
ancestral health,
the paleo community,
just about every
alternative community.
What I'm saying,
that's not true.
And all you have to do to
see to see that I'm right
is open up any book
or read anything
from PubMed that tells you
that ubiquitin, meaning
it's ubiquitous in
plants and animals,
is a process that's driven
by light on nitrogen.
And why should this be
important, both for carnivores
and for vegetarians?
Do you know that chlorophyll
is got a magnesium
ion in the middle surrounded
by four nitrogens?
Do you know that plasma
in your blood, hemoglobin,
has four nitrogens around iron.
Every place you find
life in any kingdom,
you have nitrogen
around a metal.
And that's the key.
And the thing is we are now
coming to the point in biology
where we're beginning to
realize that ubiquitin
and what it does to proteins is
the key driver for epigenetics.
The problem is
that information's
being published in
research, but it's not
hit clinical medicine yet.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: And the point that
I'm trying to make to people
is when they try my
Leptin Prescription,
I didn't tell this to
people when I posted it
on the internet five
to seven years ago,
but it's a light driven process.
After the six weeks, when
the cravings went away,
what did I do?
Then I added the magnetism side.
How do you increase magnetism
in anything on this planet?
Physics told me the answer.
It's called Curie point.
The Curie point shows that
any time things get colder,
it gets more magnetic.
Any time the temperature
rises, it gets less magnetic.
Well, what does your
mitochondria fundamentally
act as?
A tiny nano electromagnet.
If you increase a magnet's
strength, what do you do?
You increase energy.
So what was my belief at that
original biohack that I did?
If I could increase energy flows
from light and from magnetism,
I could decrease my mass.
Now did I believe
that it would work?
I'll be very honest with you.
I didn't think it would.
But in 11 months, I became
a very small person.
And everybody in my
hospital was asking me,
Jack, did you go out and
have surgery on this--
>>REGINA: You have
your stomach stapled?
>>KRUSE: Exactly.
I mean, you know,
I'm a neurosurgeon.
I'm always operating.
I said did I have any time
off to do any of this.
So there was a couple
of docs in my hospital
that were very really
interested in this
and they started to
send me cases that
were not neurosurgery based.
One of the docs in particular
was a gastroenterologist.
And he said to me, Jack,
what you're doing is amazing.
He said you need to put this
information on the internet.
And I'll be honest with
you, in the beginning,
I didn't feel
comfortable doing that.
And then I decided,
OK, I'm going
to put the quilt
document up on a site
and then I'm going to
start releasing some blogs.
And you have to realize, from my
perspective as a neurosurgeon,
the blogs have to
be head splitting.
Like if you read
some of the blogs,
you'd be like, oh,
my god, this is--
>>REGINA: Oh, I have.
>>KRUSE: Right.
>>REGINA: It's like,
oh, I have a headache.
I'm not drinking coffee
anymore, so what do I do?
>>KRUSE: Well, the
reason why it has
to be like that is because
I've got people, scientists
and researchers, who read it.
They have to know
that this is not woo.
>>REGINA: No, I totally-- I
got why you do it that way.
And the thing is it's
written in such a way there
are kind of key things that
happen in each of your blogs,
where you-- it's
like an aha moment.
A light turns on, I get it.
I can put those pieces together.
As a layperson, even.
>>KRUSE: And what I try
to do with the blogs,
I also have a forum.
I answer all the questions
that you can have.
I'm active on social media.
So if you have a
question and you're not
sure about something,
I'll answer it.
But here's the
method to my madness.
I came up with the quilt idea.
And I think ladies would
really appreciate this,
because, when you
build a quilt, you
have piece by piece by piece.
And as you build it, then you
get to see the coherent whole.
Well, the blogs are no
different than that.
It adds another
piece to the story.
So there are more pieces
you get, the more coherent
the story becomes.
So you can say,
in the beginning,
you may think I
was bat shit crazy,
but then you start going--
>>REGINA: Well, you're
just lost because it's
different terminology.
It's a completely different
medical model, so to speak.
>>KRUSE: Well, it's
a paradigm change.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's
>>KRUSE: The way I
like to describe it
to even my patients
in the clinic,
like you take my fist here and
you take a flashlight here.
And if I shine a
light on it, you
look at the shadow
cast on the wall.
It looks like a fist.
What happens when I do this?
See, the two thermodynamic
events haven't changed,
but the shadow's different.
That is the interesting thing
that happens in biology.
It changes your perspective.
And when your perspective
changes to a physics level,
you start to look
at proteins, you
start to look at
redox potentials,
you start to look at cells.
You start to look at the way
the cells are put together
completely differently.
And that is what really
got me on those six papers.
Those six papers
really made me realize
that I had to stop
thinking like a doctor
and think more like an engineer.
>>REGINA: Or a physicist, even,
or a culmination of the two.
>>KRUSE: I think an engineer
is more accurate because it's
about thermodynamics.
>>REGINA: So now let's--
you lost your cravings.
Now what happened after that?
I mean, you lost
a lot of weight.
There must have been
more to this process.
You said six things, and
we're only at two or three.
>>KRUSE: Yeah, but the big
one was then adding the cold.
And the cold was like
throwing the gasoline--
>>REGINA: Do you mean
like submerging yourself
in cold water?
>>KRUSE: Yeah, I started
off first with showers.
And I found that it didn't
do enough on skin coverage.
And then I started to look--
I told you-- in the NASA data,
and also I started to look
at SEAL training, and things
that the military was doing.
And I realized that I
didn't have to lower
my temperature in the core.
I just had to lower the
surface temperature.
>>REGINA: That means you don't
have to stay in it very long.
>>KRUSE: Mm, that's not true.
>>REGINA: Oh, God.
So how--
>>KRUSE: Now, it depends
what your goal is.
Remember, I was
a big, heavy man,
so my goal was
maximum weight loss.
So I've actually
packed myself in ice.
There, in fact,
one night, when I
came back from doing five
or six fusion operations,
I packed myself in
the tub, had my wife
dump 160 pounds of ice on me and
I slept for 12 hours in there.
But here's the coolest
part of the story.
And this really made
an impact on my wife--
>>REGINA: No pun intended.
>>KRUSE: I lost five
pounds that night.
And my wife was like wow.
For those of you who
are nonbelievers,
this is a very interesting
story to follow.
Mass General 2007,
2008, they came up
with something called
cold sculpting.
What is that?
That's plastic surgery for
ladies without a scalpel.
>>REGINA: I've read about that.
>>KRUSE: They take a metal
plate and put it on your fat
and freeze it.
And in six weeks,
the fat goes away.
Where'd they get the idea?
1950 Korean War, black soldiers
were exposed, got frostbite,
they started to lose all
their fat around their face.
So they got the
idea could you use
this to do different things.
So when I read
this, I went in back
to all the things I had
read, and guess what I found?
That leptin biochemistry
was tied to cold receptors
on the surface of the skin.
And that is where I
came up with the idea.
So you can pay a
plastic surgeon $2,000
to do this procedure on
you or you can go and use
my Cold Thermogenesis
Protocol in your bathroom,
at home, for the price
of what it costs for ice.
And it works.
And people have been
doing this on the forum.
When I started putting
my ideas out there,
you know, there was
a lot of critics.
And if you listened
to critics, you know,
sometimes you'll miss out
on some really good stuff.
And one of the girls that
was on my forum, her name
was Kate Towler.
She lives in Michigan.
And she sent a picture.
I have a part of my form that is
called Optimal Journals, where
basically people put their
stories down about what brought
them to the point they are now,
like-- I always tell people,
when you get to
be sick and tired,
that's when you're
really ripe for change,
especially if you
go to the doctor
and they keep telling you the
same thing over and over again.
It's like when Einstein said
if you do the same thing over
and over again and expect
a different result,
that's insanity.
And, unfortunately,
that's what I realized.
And that's what Kate realized.
So she put her life
story on the forum.
And it was a shocking story.
She was basically
in her late 20s.
She was married to a person
with Asperger's syndrome.
She had two children that
were densely autistic.
And she said, Dr. Kruse, if I
apply these principles, what
could happen to me.
>>REGINA: She was
also very overweight.
>>KRUSE: Yes, she
was over 350 pounds.
She actually put her original
picture up on the forum.
And she applied the principles.
18 months, she lost 157 pounds.
But the coolest part of the
story was this past September,
I went to a
biohacking conference.
And I just put her
picture up and showed it.
And I told them you guys may be
amazed about her weight loss,
I'm not because she did
exactly the same thing I did.
That's not the shock.
But the shock was her two kids
are no longer on the spectrum.
>>REGINA: Now, they followed
the protocols as well?
>>KRUSE: Oh, well, pretty much
how this works if mama does it,
everybody in the house does it.
>>REGINA: So the whole
family was doing this.
Is this including the
lowering of their temperature
through these cold baths?
>>KRUSE: Yes, well, the kids,
see, they live in Michigan,
so they had a bigger opportunity
to use the snow in the cold.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>KRUSE: But, yeah,
the kids did it, too.
And Kate's story evolved
in that 18 months
on the forum and people
started to see her results.
When she sent me the kids'
data from the pediatrician,
that they were no
longer on the spectrum,
and that even her
husband had improved,
I was shocked because that's
not why I innovated this.
So when I presented this at
this biohacking conference,
two movie producers
came up and said, look,
we don't believe this.
We'd like to go
and interview her.
So they did.
And the movie producers
just came back
and met with me six weeks ago.
And here's the funny
part of the story,
I've never met Kate like you
and I are meeting right now.
In fact, Kate's on
my arm right here.
She made this bracelet for
me because she's a starfish.
I call people that
do the things that I
teach them to do starfish
because they're trying
to help change other people.
And when Sarah and
Harry, who went up
there to meet them,
they were like, Jack,
this lady is just magic.
She's completely changed.
Her kids have changed.
It's just amazing.
And this is the point that
I would make to people.
Just thoughts can
change your DNA.
And I'm not taught that.
I was not taught
that in medicine.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: To be honest with
you, until kind of Kate
came into my life, I didn't
think that was the case either.
And that's when I started to
realize that when you put down
thoughts that are
tied to nature, that
follow some very
fundamental rules,
anybody can have optimal health.
It's a choice.
>>REGINA: And that
is really, I think,
a very optimistic
aspect of your message
is that you don't have to
already be in decent shape
to get going.
In fact, the more-- almost
the more desperate you are,
the more ready for
change you are,
the more receptive you are--
>>KRUSE: Correct.
>>REGINA: And the
better results you get.
>>KRUSE: And the
other thing I would
tell you is the more
of a skeptic you
are because no one started
this process more as a skeptic
than me.
I mean, if you know
anything about medicine,
and especially
neurosurgeons, we tend
to be the most skeptical
dogmatic people on the planet.
That's how we're trained.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: And this completely
changed my viewpoint
of how I look at disease.
I tell people this
now, after they
hear the story, that I was
taught to believe that disease
manifests within my DNA.
I now know that DNA
is not the problem.
The environment that we
allow our DNA to sense
is the critical problem.
And those things in
the environment, food
happens to be one,
but the big one
is light, and then some
of the newer technologies
that we allow.
For example, we've already
talked about one today
during this interview.
We're sitting around some
incredible blue light.
>>REGINA: And I want to ask
you want a couple more things
before we get into the
whole notion of light
and RF and EMF
frequencies and all
that, because, really,
that's a whole other story
in and of itself and what
it's doing to us, isn't it?
>>KRUSE: It's the key story.
>>REGINA: It's the key story.
So before we get
to the key story,
I was listening-- you
just brought up food,
you brought up light, and this
holistic nature of-- maybe I
shouldn't say it in reverse.
When I was listening to
your blog, it was going by
and I was hanging in there.
And I heard something and I
thought did I hear this right.
I wasn't sure that I did,
so I asked you off camera.
And you said, no,
you heard it right.
And it had to do
with consuming algae.
This is a big deal.
And, in fact, a lot of the
people watching this show
are consuming blue green
algaes, and very dense grasses,
wheat grasses, wheat grass
powders, and so forth.
Sometimes with negative
impacts, but you
said you should
not be separating
the algae from the fish, that
uncoupling that is happening
the way we live our
lives in general,
this being just a
specific example,
is part of the problem.
So can you get into that a bit?
>>KRUSE: Yeah,
that's an easy one.
You do need to know a little
science, but it's not hard.
Everything in
biology is coupled,
meaning that it has
one side and the other.
And the best way to think
about as a Venn diagram.
Two circles come together.
The overlap is what matters.
The other sides don't
really matter too much.
So let's talk about algae.
Algae, in the sea, are designed
to make a chemical called DHA.
Most people know
that as fish oil.
Fish oil has a very
specific purpose in biology.
It's designed to take
sunlight, turn it
into a DC electric
current and vice versa.
It can go from a DC electric
current back to sunlight.
Here's the key factor.
DHA has never been replaced in
the kingdom of life we live in.
We are part of the eukaryotes.
Prokaryotes and Archaea are
the other two kingdoms of life.
There's only three.
600 million years, so I want
you to think about that.
In evolutionary
time scales, it's
never been replaced one time,
yet we know from Darwin's work
everything gets replaced.
But this hasn't been replaced.
So that tells you right--
>>REGINA: It's essential.
>>KRUSE: That tells
you right then
and there, it's
really important.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KRUSE: So algae
make DHA in the sea
from photosynthesis,
from the sun.
Plankton have to eat the algae.
Why is that stuff critical?
Because DHA, when
it's first made,
has to be in a certain position.
Anybody who knows anything
about biochemistry
knows that all fats are
based on a carbon chain.
It's a three carbon chain,
one, two, and three.
DHA, to be used in mammalian
tissue, specifically
the brain and the heart or
the central nervous system,
has to be in SN2 position, has
to be in the middle position.
And the reason for
that is because when
it's in that position,
it's called paramagnetic.
What does that mean?
It's drawn to magnetic fields.
What did we say before
about mitochondria?
They are nano electric magnets.
So why is DHA paramagnetic?
Because it's drawn to
tissues with huge amounts
of mitochondria.
The reason why is because
it has to turn light
into an electrical
signal and vice versa.
That's the key.
Without algae, if
you just eat algae,
you're not getting
DHA in the SN2.
It's in SN1 or SN3.
So it's biologically not active.
>>REGINA: It's
unavailable, so to speak.
>>KRUSE: Correct.
It doesn't work for us.
>>REGINA: But if you eat fish.
>>KRUSE: Well, because
fish eat plankton.
So that means that the DHA
is in the SN2 position.
Therefore, eating
fish is the key.
Now do certain fish have
higher levels of DHA--
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
this because you're really
big on fish consumption to
keep our DHA levels intact,
to keep our energy systems
intact, or everything intact.
So give us the rundown on the
top for really great fish,
and then maybe
the bottom feeders
that don't work so
well, figuratively.
>>KRUSE: This is what
I would tell you.
I have a blog post about
this called "Brain Gut Six."
I would tell you
to read that one.
But the simple one
is the smallest fish
in the ocean that form the basis
of the food chain for big fish
are sardines.
They have the highest
amount of DHA in them.
The other key thing is,
remember, fish all swim
in different columns of water.
You want the fish in
the coldest water.
>>REGINA: Makes sense
from what you just said.
>>KRUSE: Right, because it
has more electrons in it.
And that's the reason why.
Remember, cold
water is more dense.
That's why it falls down.
Ice is on the top, so fish
can swim underneath it.
Mackerel happens
to be a good one.
The fish you want
to stay away from
are the predator fish
at the top of the apex.
So tuna and swordfish
are the things
you'd want to stay away from.
Why?
Because they tend to collect
toxins from the lower ends that
are not good, not that--
and I don't want anybody
to think that tuna and swordfish
are not fish that you can eat.
They're far better choices
than, say, eating like a rabbit
or eating, say, a paleo diet.
Because the amount of DHA even
in predator fish is very high.
And you need that.
But the best is shellfish.
And that you're going to find
out when you read my book.
The number one
thing, the thing that
has more nutrient density
for a mammal, that
has three pounds of DHA
in its head is an oyster.
And just so you
know, one raw oyster
is equivalent to eating one
pound of grass fed liver.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>KRUSE: And remember
why grass fed,
this is where the paleo
guys get it right.
They stumbled in by luck.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: DHA's the key because
where's DHA on the land chain?
It's in grass.
The problem is cows are
designed to eat grass,
but they no longer
do in our country
because we feed them grains.
Grains are not good because
they're loaded with omega 6s.
Remember, DHA is an omega 3.
And you need that
specific omega 3
in order to make signaling
everywhere in your body work
correctly.
Because when signaling
doesn't work, you get bigger,
or you get sicker, or you
get an autoimmune disease,
or you get neuro degeneration.
You wind up with
Alzheimer's disease.
You get Parkinson's earlier.
Here's the key point that I want
to bring home to you about DHA.
DHA is destroyed by blue light.
>>REGINA: We're going
there right now.
But, first, I did-- people
are saying, wait a minute,
wait a minute, he didn't
say anything about salmon.
>>KRUSE: Salmon's great.
But I will tell you salmon
from different parts
of the world is better.
So if you can get your
hands on salmon from Alaska,
in the cold water, the
polar seas, Norway.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: The thing
that you have to avoid
is you have to
avoid farmed fish.
But here's the key
with farmed fish,
not all farm fish are bad.
I'm one of the few
people, especially
in alternative health
communities, that will tell you
that farmed stuff, I'm OK with.
For example, if you live in
the Philippines or Australia,
you have to eat farmed
fish because there's
no fish alive left in the sea.
So everything's there.
But the key is you
are what you eat eats.
So if you feed them soy
pellets, you feed them corn,
you're effectively
eating chicken.
You're not eating fish.
It's still called salmon,
but it's not really salmon
because it doesn't
have DHA in it.
Now some of the
foreign producers,
especially the guys that
I know down in Australia,
are using algae and
plankton to feed the fish.
Then that farmed
fish is quite good.
>>REGINA: That
makes sense, sure.
>>KRUSE: So you need to realize.
Here, in the States,
we're a little bit lucky.
Depending on where you are,
down where I am in the Gulf,
I have no problems.
All the fish is wild.
The fish there is--
>>REGINA: But it's warm water.
>>KRUSE: Yeah, but
here's the irony.
There's a story that goes
back to the quantum physics,
something you and I
didn't talk about,
that I think you'll
find interesting.
Warm water tends to
have-- it's a dead zone.
If you look at the equatorial
waters around the planet,
fish don't really
populate there.
The highest density, the biomass
of fish, are in the poles
where it's colder.
Why?
Because there's more
electrons in the water,
there's more oxygen
in the water.
>>REGINA: Makes sense.
>>KRUSE: Why is the Gulf
of Mexico different?
>>REGINA: So prolific?
>>KRUSE: Why?
>>REGINA: Well, I mean--
>>KRUSE: What happened there
65 million years ago when
the age of mammals began?
An asteroid hit the planet
and created a giant crater
in the ground 166 miles wide.
It's called the
Chicxulub crater.
That brings the surface
magma, magnetism.
Guess why.
And this is in the last
chapter of my book.
This is the reason
why the Gulf of Mexico
is teeming with life,
because the magnetic field is
more powerful there than in any
other place around the planet.
This is the interesting
part about physics.
Now, I tell people
this all the time.
Remember, we talked earlier
about the three legged stool.
We talked about light,
water, and magnetism.
Let me tell you how important
it is to understand that you
have to have all three parts.
If you go outside
tonight and look up,
no matter where you
are, you're going
to see our nearest
neighbor is Mars.
It has light, it has
frozen polar caps.
But what doesn't it have?
It has no magnetic field.
It's a dead red desert.
Two out of three was
good for meatloaf,
but it's not good for life.
We need all.
And on our planet,
you need to realize
that the place where you need to
supplement your battery, that's
inside you, I call it the
mammalian battery, when
you live a
disconnected life, you
have to have more
DHA in your battery.
When you live more like a
plant, say, around the equator,
you can live off more of
the photosynthetic side
of the battery, which is tied
to water chemistry, which we
haven't talked that much about.
Most people know photosynthesis
takes thin air, co2,
with light and forms sugars.
You have the availability to
do that partially in your body,
but we supplement it with
DHA on the other side.
And it's equivalent
to something we
have talked about off camera is
about the John Deere tractor.
When you have a car
battery and you put the key
in all the time, the key
starts-- say, for 40 years,
today, it didn't start.
So what do you do?
You go out and pull the
battery out and look in,
pull the top off.
And say, oh, there's no
water, I'm dehydrated.
So you pour some water
in, put the key in,
it still doesn't work.
Then you say, OK,
what's the problem.
Maybe it's the cell
in the battery.
So you call your boyfriend
up, you jump the battery.
It still doesn't work.
Now you're left
with a conundrum.
What's the conundrum?
The conundrum is, is the
battery truly dead or is
it just need to be charged.
So you take it to Firestone.
Take it Firestone, find
out it's dead or not.
Well, you got lucky.
Now, how do I do
this clinically?
First thing I do, is
if we could do this,
we probably can't
do it on camera,
but I would grab your tibia.
Why your tibia?
The bone comes closest
to the surface.
And I squeeze it with my finger.
Why do I do that?
I want to see if
your bone is soft.
If I can't do it with
my finger, then I
take my reflex hammer
and push against it.
It's called a tibial
compression test.
Why do I do that?
Because it tells me if you're
vitamin D status is low.
What is vitamin D correlated to?
Well, how are you
designed to make it?
From sunlight.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KRUSE: You're not designed
to take it by a pill, which
is what your doctors give you.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KRUSE: That tells me that
your DC electric current is bad.
How did I know that?
What is the cell
in your battery?
DHA.
What did we say earlier?
It turns sunlight into
a DC electric current.
So if I know your bone's
soft, I know which
side of your battery's bad.
That's the key.
And the key is, then that
brings us to the key point,
why is DHA destroyed.
>>REGINA: Yes, now, I mean,
we could talk for a few
more hours just on any
one of these topics,
but, again, these
blogs are available.
You have a book available,
"The Leptin Prescription Diet."
You can read on the site.
So let's just say we've given
people enough information
to understand the
real basics, which
is the sunlight, heavy dense
protein breakfast, also
lowering your body temperature
for a sustained period of time
depending on how severe your
condition, and so forth.
And then there's
more beyond that.
So now what destroys this?
Now we go into the things we're
doing to our own environment
to essentially cause us
to have to do all of this.
>>KRUSE: Right, well, one of
the great things about having
a human brain is that it were
able to do things that other
animals aren't.
And this is the point that I
like to bring up to most people
when I talk to them.
And I'm going to ask you
to do this on camera.
I want you to close
your eyes for me.
And I want you to imagine that
you're in Yellowstone Park
and it's December 31st,
and you're a wolf.
You notice that
you're foraging for--
>>REGINA: I'm hungry.
>>KRUSE: Right.
And you're really hungry and
you're foraging for food.
You're the thinnest that you've
ever been in your entire life
because you're hungry
and you're cold.
Now I want you to
open your eyes.
Now you're in Southern
California, where you live.
Now you're a human.
Why is it in the newspapers,
at this very same time,
December 31, you see nothing
but articles for Gold's Gym.
Why is it that you and
that wolf are both mammals,
but you have to work out at the
time when he's the thinnest?
Why is that mismatch there?
You know why, you're the only
mammal on this planet that
can control its environment.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KRUSE: And guess what?
Therein lies the problem.
And the problem is modern
humans don't realize the degree
that they control it.
What's the number-- I call
this the electromagnetic fields
that we allow.
We have native fields.
The native fields is what
we've been talking about.
It's about the earth's
magnetic field.
It's about 50
microteslas normally.
And then we have
sun, day and night.
Those are
electromagnetic fields.
That's what our biology
was designed around.
The problem is now we
have non-native fields.
What's the first
non-native field?
I shared this one
with you already.
When you were born, you
came through a vagina.
>>REGINA: Electricity and light.
>>KRUSE: No, you came
through a vagina.
Did you have clothes on?
Both of us have
clothes on today.
So the first mismatch
that we made as a species
was 700,000 years ago.
The last humans that lived
the way they're supposed to
is the American Indians.
What'd they have on?
Loin cloths?
Expose themselves all the time.
Their solar panel was up.
Today, we have the belief
that the sun is bad
which is actually almost
comical when you understand--
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>KRUSE: Evolution.
>>REGINA: I never
bought that one.
>>KRUSE: What's the other key?
In our houses, we all
have electric cabling.
It runs on 60 Hertz.
People don't believe
that has an effect.
I would tell everybody
listening to this interview,
and I'm not going to get into
the details, I promise you,
this book will
cover everything you
need to know about non-native
electromagnetic fields.
It's called "Going Somewhere,"
by Dr. Andrew Marino.
And this person is one
of the people, papers,
that I read of those six
papers that I told you about.
Turns out that he's got a
book that basically takes
all of the papers that I
read, with a key researcher
named Dr. Robert O. Becker,
who just about every doctor
knows, especially if
you're in my business,
because he figured out
how bone physiology works.
He was an orthopedic
surgeon at SUNY Syracuse.
And he realized that
bone regeneration
occurs by semi conduction in
all mammals, including us.
And it is very
counterintuitive for doctors
to realize that semi
conduction works on us.
>>REGINA: Say that in
English for laypeople.
What does that mean?
The implication of it.
>>KRUSE: It's very simple.
I mean, let's talk about
some of the older people that
are probably watching this.
They used to have
an analog telephone.
Today, everybody
has a cell phone.
The cell phone works on a chip.
Your computers, the cameras
running this interview,
all run on chips.
Those chips work on a specific
type of electrical current.
There is a difference between
the electricity in the wall
and that electrical current.
What's the difference?
The electricity in your
battery or in the wall
doesn't work well in cold.
But guess what happens
in semi conduction?
It works phenomenal.
Why did packing
myself in ice work?
You can do the biohacking
yourself at home.
Take your iPhone, put it on
the hood of your Mercedes.
In the summer, you'll get
a temperature warning.
Take the phone and put
it right in the freezer,
and guess what happens,
it works like a charm.
Why?
This is the counterintuitive
part of physics.
You need to understand that
not all electric currents are
created equal.
And the one that's
in us is a big deal.
Marino's book, called "Going
Somewhere," is key reading.
When you realize that non-native
electromagnetic fields have
tremendous implications on
signaling in our body, they do,
and what's the major effect?
Not to get too deep into
the science, it's simple.
Calcium, everybody's
heard of that.
Calcium acts as a cement
in your cell membranes.
Basically, it
allows calcium to go
and the cell membranes unwind.
What do cell membranes
do in our body?
They're electromagnetic antennas
for sunlight and magnetism.
That is how biology works.
And when you can't keep
that cement in there,
can you get the signal?
Just think about it.
When you were a young lady
driving in Southern California
and used to have AM radio,
remember when you drove
under a power line,
you heard that-- that's
exactly what happens when
you're in a non-native field
to your mitochondria, inside
you or in your cell membranes.
And when you have too
much, guess what happens?
You get sick and
you get diseases
that come out of
nowhere, like autism,
like autoimmune diseases.
I mean, I'll give
you a perfect example
that I've shared
with many doctors.
If you look at my
Robin's pathology book
when I was in medical
school in 1986,
talked about
Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
It was less than 1%
of cases in women--
>>REGINA: Oh, God,
it's epidemic.
>>KRUSE: Now it's 90% to 95%.
So my profession says, well,
it's got to be genetic.
Well, if you know
anything about genetics,
genetics can't change
in 30 years that fast.
It's clearly epigenetic, just
on that one disease alone.
And the problem is, for
autoimmune diseases, at least
from conventional
medicine, we still
don't have a good
answer for that.
So instead, then we
have alternative health
practitioners who make things
up to try to fit the story.
I get angry about this,
just as well as I get angry
about conventional medicine.
I don't want people
to believe woo.
I want people to understand.
There is a reason for this.
And the reason is a quantum one.
It's tied to the way we
handle electrons and protons
in mitochondrion and in on our
cell membranes for signaling.
When signaling breaks down,
it's like that little game
that you played
probably when you
were younger called telephone.
You get on and
you say something,
you get to the end of 30
people, and the message
comes out completely different.
Well, that's fundamentally
what cancer is.
When that message goes from
the cell membrane all the way
to the mitochondria
deep in the cell,
the message isn't the
same as it was from light
or from the magnetic field.
It's radically different.
So what happens?
Biochemistry alters.
>>REGINA: And this
is as a result of all
these artificial intrusions?
>>KRUSE: Correct.
>>REGINA: And that includes
light, artificial light.
>>KRUSE: Light's the biggest--
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
this light and blue light.
>>KRUSE: Blue light's
the biggest one.
And the reason why, how do
you explain this simply, let's
build on the concepts that
we've already talked about.
We talked about how
incredibly important DHA
is to eukaryotic kingdom,
which is mammals are.
600 million years, blue
light destroys DHA.
DHA in your eye has
higher concentration
than it is in your brain.
Many people don't know that.
That's by evolutionary design.
Why is that?
What is your eye
designed to see?
Light, right?
So blue light destroys it.
When DHA gets destroyed,
it gets broken down
into three chemicals, resolvins,
protectin, and maresins.
Not important you
remember it, just
realize that those
chemicals are antioxidants.
They help us.
But you have to replace the DHA
after the blue light comes in.
So if you don't eat it,
you can't replace it.
Why?
Humans have left less
than a 1% ability
to regenerate DHA endogenously.
So we have to eat it.
>>REGINA: You have
to consume it, yeah.
>>KRUSE: And you have
to eat it consistently.
So if you're a
modern human and you
live in Southern
California, and you're
around lights like this all day,
or you're a neurosurgeon back
in New Orleans, and you're
around electromagnetic fields
from x-ray machines, and
blue lights, and microscopes,
what might that effect be?
You destroy DHA
slowly in your body.
What does your body do?
It puts inflammatory omega 6s
from our diet in its place.
And then what happens
when they break down?
They can't break down
into maresins, protectins,
and resolvins.
So you do develop inflammation.
What is inflammation,
fundamentally,
to the ladies listening or
the whole audience listening
to this?
It's a positive charge.
What did we say before
about water and seafood?
Net negative charge.
How do you get rid
of a positive charge?
A negative.
So you have to have DHA back
in the system to do that.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about blue light
and the sources of
blue light that we
encounter on a daily basis.
And let's talk about
what happens, say,
you've got your
laptop and you decide
you're going to go on
to Netflix and maybe put
a pillow on your belly and
kick back and watch your two
hours on your computer
screen before you
go to sleep at night.
>>KRUSE: That's a bad thing.
>>REGINA: I want you
to explain why and what
happens when we do that.
>>KRUSE: Let's finish
the DHA story first.
What blue light does is when it
destroys DHA, because you have
more of it in your
eye, there's a thing
on the top of your
optic nerves that
goes right before
your brain called
the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
That nucleus is
your atomic clock.
Now I got to teach
you a physics lesson
before we get to the laptop.
Everybody watching
this talk knows
that they have a GPS
device, either in a garment
or on their phone.
What you don't know
is how it works.
Up above us right now,
there are satellites
that have atomic
clocks that work
38 microseconds faster than
your cell phones on this planet.
The reason that has
to happen is because
of Einstein's relativity.
Again, we're back to physics.
Why is that?
Blue light bends under
the force of gravity.
People don't realize that,
that time is relative.
So the same thing
happens in biochemistry.
The reason why you have to
have more DHA in your eye,
it has to run the atomic
clock in your head
faster than the one in your
breasts, and your belly,
in your uterus, or
in your feet in order
for signaling to work properly.
When you don't have enough here,
this runs slower than the one
here, that's a problem.
>>REGINA: And when your
timing's off, everything's off.
>>KRUSE: You got it.
I always use the
analogy with FedEx.
If FedEx has arrivals
and deliveries come
at the same day
instead of being yoked,
would you want to be in
the warehouse at the time?
No way.
Well, that's exactly what
happens in biochemistry.
And when that kind of chaos
happens in the cell, what
do we call it?
Call it chaos.
What's a synonym for chaos?
Inflammation.
What's a synonym
for information?
Positive charge, a lack
of negative charge.
We're back to DHA again.
See, everything
comes back to DHA.
>>REGINA: But that's fixable.
>>KRUSE: It is, as long
as I can get you to stop--
>>REGINA: Get some
sun, have some--
>>KRUSE: No, you
got to eat seafood.
>>REGINA: And eat some
of the proper seafood.
I get it.
You put it the other way around.
Seafood first, sun second.
>>KRUSE: Seafood's always first,
and here's the reason why.
I'm going to keep hammering back
the point, 600 million years,
it hasn't been replaced.
You need to realize
how important it is.
Why?
The clock mechanism has to
run faster than everyone else.
Getting to your point, most
women know about a IUD.
Most women, if you
go ask your OBGYN,
they don't know
how an IUD works.
I'm going to tell
you how it works.
It has copper in it.
Copper is a transition metal.
All electromagnetic
radiation is drawn to metals.
So when you put a
laptop on your uterus,
you're driving this circadian
clock faster than the one here.
So, effectively, your
laptop is your best form
of birth control.
That's the reason why young
kids that put their cell phones
in their pocket--
>>REGINA: Infertility.
>>KRUSE: It's exactly right.
And if you look, if
you're old enough,
you realize, back
in the 50s and 60s,
people would get
pregnant like that.
Today, that's changed.
And the reason why it's changed
is because we've allowed things
in.
I mean, people don't realize
that just 25, 30 years ago,
there was no internet.
The only people that had
non-native electrical things
were people who were rich in the
'70s who had microwave ovens.
I mean, we've all--
>>REGINA: Well, we've had
artificial light for a while.
>>KRUSE: Well, since
1924 in the states.
But it started back with
the electric wars back
in the 1890s.
But the point is
we've added the power.
In other words, incandescent
bulbs to the new LED bulbs
are nightmarish in terms of
understanding the physics.
And the problem is, and
I wanted to get to this,
I did a study on my own patients
when I was back in Nashville
that you may actually like.
I asked people to tell me
how many times they looked
at their cell phone in one day.
The average was 150 times.
Just so you know, that's
texting or looking.
So you look 150 times.
What did I say before about
the Leptin Prescription?
You're designed to set the
atomic clock in the morning.
So if you do this 150 times--
>>REGINA: So it
keeps taking off--
setting your clock off and
off, is your clock goes off.
>>KRUSE: You got
the message, see?
This quantum physics
thing isn't that hard.
See, I always tell
people, it's kind
of like you don't have to
speak Mandarin Chinese to like
Chinese food.
You just need to
understand that when
you look at that blue
light every time,
you just sent a message to your
brain that the sun just rose.
That's a problem.
>>REGINA: But what
emits blue light?
Tell us.
>>KRUSE: Everything that's
technology based today.
Why?
>>REGINA: Including
your televisions?
>>KRUSE: You got it.
And here's my rule.
You can block that by using
amber glasses, you know--
>>REGINA: I was going
to ask you about that.
>>KRUSE: We talk about--
we talk about that
on my forum a tremendous amount.
You saw my phone today,
you mentioned it.
I have a blue light, I have
a blue light protector on it.
Because when I'm on
call, I get called in,
I don't want my melatonin
cycle to be broken.
And on that study,
I was telling you,
all those people that
look at their cell
phone every time, what happens?
They get an imbalance between
cortisol and melatonin.
What is cortisol?
Cortisol is highest
in the morning
when the sun rises and melatonin
is highest when it's dark.
So when you have a circadian
mismatch, what do you get?
You get something
called adrenal fatigue.
Adrenal fatigue is a circadian--
>>REGINA: Again, an epidemic.
>>KRUSE: Right, a
circadian mismatch
between light and dark.
Your brain and your cells
can't tell night from day.
Why?
Because you've created
an artificial environment
that has destroyed that.
And what did we say is the
key driver to everything
in biology?
Light.
It's not food.
Food is the third coupled cycle.
The first cycle
is ubiquitination,
which is driven by light.
Second one is the cell cycle.
Why is that important?
That's cancer.
That's the reason why
colon cancer in 1900
was the 37th cause of
cancer in the United States.
Today, it's number two.
Again, in 120 years, we're
talking about a disease that's
manifest.
If you believe it's genetic,
you have different sensibility
than I do.
Why?
Because in five or
six generations,
it can't change that fast.
>>REGINA: No, it doesn't
change, not like that.
>>KRUSE: What drives it?
Higher ubiquitination rates from
the environment that we allow.
So here's the best
message I give people.
If you begin to control
the environment,
there is not a disease that
you can't biohack and reverse.
I proved it by doing what I did.
Many people who follow me
have done the same thing.
It's a very different
paradigm to realize
that the prescription for
wellness is built into you.
It's not a genetic defect.
You are not
fundamentally broken.
The environment that
you allow because you
have this powerful brain is what
allows you to break yourself.
And you need to understand
that you need to really control
that aspect of your life.
If you're not
willing to do that,
biology has a plan for you.
It's called extinction.
And you will pay the price
in some Neolithic disease,
the Neolithic diseases that you
started with in the beginning
of this interview.
And the key point
is how this develops
over time is going to be the
rapidity in which diseases
manifest in you or the
severity in which they come.
>>REGINA: We're out of time.
That hour just flew.
And that was such a beautiful--
I was going to ask you-- well,
I was going to ask
you a lot more things,
but I think we've gone
exactly where we need to go.
And I'd love to have
you back at another time
to speak about some of the
other aspects of your work
we didn't even get to.
But this is the
critical stuff, right?
>>KRUSE: Yeah, I think-- I think
it's the most critical things.
And like I said, if anybody
needs more information--
>>REGINA: Oh, your site
is replete with thousands
and thousands of pages
of blogs and so forth.
You've done your
work really well.
And I can't thank you enough.
I call people like
you WAGs, which
just means wild ass genius.
So thank you for
your contributions.
>>KRUSE: Thank you.
>>REGINA: To delve
into Dr. Kruse's work
you can pick up a copy
of "The Epi-Paleo Rx"
or find him at JackKruse.com
for thousands of pages of blogs
on all of these topics and
more, an absolute goldmine
of knowledge.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]